Lesson 19 (#20)
ReDI-School/js-berlin-2019-fall: slides/lesson19.md

<!-- .slide: id="lesson19" -->

# Basic Frontend - Fall 2019

Lesson 19, Thursday, 2019-11-05

---

### Introducing Leaflet

* Leaflet (https://leafletjs.com/) is a neat little library to render maps
* In order to use it, we need to include the leaflet CSS and lealet JavaScript library in the HTML `<head>` section:

```html
<head>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://unpkg.com/leaflet@1.5.1/dist/leaflet.css"
   integrity="sha512-xwE/Az9zrjBIphAcBb3F6JVqxf46+CDLwfLMHloNu6KEQCAWi6HcDUbeOfBIptF7tcCzusKFjFw2yuvEpDL9wQ=="
   crossorigin=""/>
  <script src="https://unpkg.com/leaflet@1.5.1/dist/leaflet.js"
   integrity="sha512-GffPMF3RvMeYyc1LWMHtK8EbPv0iNZ8/oTtHPx9/cc2ILxQ+u905qIwdpULaqDkyBKgOaB57QTMg7ztg8Jm2Og=="
   crossorigin=""></script>
</head>
```

---

### Leaflet, cont.

> * Next, we need to add a HTML `<div>` element that should contain the map:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Next, we need to add an HTML `<div>` element in the HTML that should contain the map:
```

```html
<div id="mapid"></div>
```

> * And we need to give it some width, e.g by setting some CSS in the `<head>` section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* And we need to give it some width, e.g by setting some CSS in the HTML `<head>` section:
```

```css
#mapid { height: 180px; }
```

---

> 

Reviewer: Add a slide saying that rest of the code we are going to add will be written in the JavaScript file

Author: I added an extra comment to clarify that the rest is in JavaScript

### Setting up the map

* All leaflet functions are in the `L` object:

```js
// create a new map object, pass the <div> id as parameter:
let mymap = L.map('mapid');
// center it on ReDI school, zoom level 13:
mymap.setView([52.531446, 13.384752], 13);
```

---

### Setting up a layer

```js
let layer = L.tileLayer('https://api.tiles.mapbox.com/v4/{id}/{z}/{x}/{y}.png?access_token={accessToken}', {
	attribution: 'Map data &copy; <a href="https://www.openstreetmap.org/">OpenStreetMap</a> contributors, <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/">CC-BY-SA</a>, Imagery © <a href="https://www.mapbox.com/">Mapbox</a>',
	maxZoom: 18,
	id: 'mapbox.streets',
	accessToken: 'your.mapbox.access.token'
});
layer.addTo(mymap);
```

---

### Try it out

You can copy paste our code to your machine to try it out:

https://github.com/ReDI-School/js-berlin-2019-fall/tree/master/19_leaflet1

The `accessToken` is on the slack channel. If you want to create your own, visit https://www.mapbox.com/studio/account/tokens/

---

### What now?

You should see a map, centered at ReDI school. Using the `setView` function, you can scroll the map to any location.

> You can add markers to the map:

Reviewer 2: What about splitting this slide in two also. One with setView and the other only with the markers. Shorter slides can allow them to focus better.

```js
let marker = L.marker([51.5, -0.09]);
marker.addTo(mymap);
```

Can you add a marker to where you live?

---

### Popups

You can also assign popups to markers:

```js
marker.bindPopup("<b>Hello world!</b><br>I am a popup.")
```

Can you add a popup with a fun message to your marker?

---

### Combining APIs

> Remember the BVG API?

Reviewer 2: Really nice that we are reusing the APIs from past lessons in this one!!!
